# Key_ingredients_Differential_Analysis_RNAseq

Four folders are available: 

program contains all the R scripts 

real_datasets contains the Arabidopsis dataset and the results for the H0 full dataset and for the H1 rich dataset

synthetic_dataset contains the 90 synthetic datasets. For each one, there is a folder with the results of the differential analyses.

results contains the .RData generated during the evaluation analyses and also the tiff figures. Some of them are the figures used in the manuscript. Session information are stored in this folder.

program
-------
-------

This folder contains all the R scripts.

- *H1-rich-dataset.R*, *full-H0-dataset.R* and *leave-vs-leave.R* are scripts for the analysis of the real datasets available in the folder real_datasets.

- The files starting by *Differential* are functions to perform the differential analysis. Each differential analysis generates a pdf file with diagnosis graphs, a file of information for all the genes and the same file restricted to the genes declared differentially expressed. These files are directly saved in the subfolder associated to dataset under study. 

- The files starting by *graph* are the functions to generate the plots saved in the folder "results"

- *NDE-sets.R* is the R script to define the NDE sets

- *script-differential-analysis.R* is the R script that creates the synthetic datasets by using the function in the file *syntheticData.R* and that performs the 9 differential analyses on each synthetic dataset. 

- *script-evaluation.R* is the R script performing the evaluation of the method performances in terms of p-value evaluation (*Kolmogorov-Smirnov-tests.R*), AUC (*auc.R*), FDR (*FDR.R*), TPR  (*TPR.R* and *TPR-with-fixed-fdr.R*)



real_datasets
-------------
-------------

This folder contains 

- the initial dataset composed of 6 samples (2 leaf samples and 4 flower bud samples) *Arabidopsis_dataset.txt*

- a pdf file with diagnosis graphs

- a folder with the analysis of the full H0 dataset

- a folder  with the analysis of the H1 rich dataset

synthetic_datasets
-------------------
-------------------
This folder contains 90 subfolders, one per synthetic dataset. 
Each one describes the results of the 9 differential analyses.

results
-------------
-------------

.RData files to save intermediate results about the method performances
Tiff files generated by the *graph* functions to illustrate the method behavior 
for each statistical indicator
